ADULT ADAM:
Back in the '80s,
there was nothing more
exciting than the chance
of a snow day.
We all remember
the morning ritual.
We'd wake up at dawn,
hop out of bed
at lightning speed,
rush downstairs,
grab your radio,
and pray to the snow gods.
REPORTER:
The following schools are
closed in Montgomery County...
It's gonna happen.
I can feel it.
Shut up.
You're gonna jinx it.
Please, God,
if you give us a snow day,
I promise I'll be a good boy
for the rest of my life.
...Abington High closed,
Germantown West closed,
William Penn Academy...
open.
Balls!
Why?
I'm back to being
a bad boy.
This is on you,
Mother Nature.
ADULT ADAM: Sadly,
we were that one school
that never closed for snow.
REPORTER:
Abington High closed,
Germantown West closed...
Please, please,
please.
Say it. Say "closed."
I will fist-punch the radio
if you don't say "closed."
...William Penn Academy open.
Balls! Balls!
I hate everything!
I'm a man of my word!
Ow!
ADULT ADAM: Every time,
it was the same heartbreak...
Until the snow gods
finally showed mercy.
REPORTER:
William Penn Academy...
closed.
Wait... Am I still asleep,
or did he just say
William Penn is closed?
He said "closed."
School is closed.
This is the best day
of my life!
(LAUGHING AND CHEERING)
I feel so alive!
(LAUGHING)
Yeah!
Snow day means a full day
of snuggle time with mama!
Yeah!
Get in here! Get it!
I'm so happy, I don't have
the will to fight her off!
(LAUGHING)
ALL: (CHANTING) Snow day!
Snow day! Snow day!
¶ I'm twisted up inside
¶ But nonetheless
I feel the need to say
¶ I don't know the future
¶ But the past keeps getting
clearer every day ¶
ADULT ADAM:
It was snow day,
1980-something,
and my sister
was seizing the day...
...by sleeping through it.
Aah!
Oh, good.
You're finally up.
God! What the hell?
Someone was snoring
the day away, lazybones.
Mom, today is a day
that's been gifted to me
by the universe.
Please don't ruin it
by being you.
You only have one more
college essay left to write,
and then you're done.
That has nothing to do
with snow day.
Of course it does.
You're physically trapped
in the house with me,
and all the roads and stores
are closed.
Yay! Let's get you
into Penn State.
No! Put away
the word processor.
I am not writing
my college essay.
Squishy, I can help you.
I read the topic...
"Describe a personal hero
"who's changed the course
of your life."
Mom, stop.
Let's brainstorm.
What makes a hero? Hmm?
Someone who's great at...
Crafting, matchmaking,
parming chicken or shrimp
or eggplant or meatballs.
Listen, I did write about
someone in the family,
but it's a "he."
Yay! It's me!
I am he, and he is me.
Bevy, she clearly
picked someone else,
perhaps a decorated war vet
who had a date
with two different Shirleys
last night.
That's right.
Pops? (SCOFFS)
You picked
the random old guy
who just hangs around
our house all day,
eating our smoked fish?
(CHUCKLES) Choo-choo!
Next stop, Lametown.
Hey, I liberated
an entire country.
I helped saved lives.
(IMITATES SNORING)
Oh! Oh, sorry, I drifted off
to sleep there.
Okay, this turned
ugly fast.
Now, if you'll excuse me,
I have a full day
of doing nothing ahead of me.
I honestly don't see a world
where it's anyone but me.
But thank you
for your service.
ADULT ADAM: My mom would
stop at nothing
to be Erica's hero.
Meanwhile, me and Big Tasty
started our snow day
with an epic
cartoon marathon.
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Did you two get into my
four-quadrant popcorn tin?
Relax.
We were just sniffing it.
Stand up and show me
your fingers.
If I see any cheese dust,
you're both grounded.
Dust-free. You happy?
Dude, you're unbelievable.
Popcorn is the snack
of the people.
No. It's a snack
for dads only.
I get one tin a year
from my armoire dealer
in Cincinnati.
It's the only thing that
gets me through the season.
There are so many sad things
in that sentence,
but I honestly think
the winner is "Cincinnati."
Well, just keep
your hands off the tin.
That's it.
End of story.
And the same goes
for the thermostat.
Yeah,
I see you two looking.
That's 'cause it's colder
in this house
than it is outside.
Yeah, man.
Can't you spare
like two more degrees?
If you two are so cold,
go out and shovel
the walkway.
That ought to work up
a sweat but good.
(BOTH SIGH)
ADULT ADAM: Murray Goldberg
had a lot of dumb dad rules,
but nothing equaled
his hard line on snow.
And no monkeying around
out there when you're done.
This weather is treacherous.
Oh, here we go.
Another lecture on the dangers
of cold weather.
I'm serious.
It's not safe out there.
You got frostbite, avalanches,
and deadly icicles.
Icicles aren't deadly.
They're refreshing
and delicious.
They're knives that can fall
from the sky at any moment.
Sky knives!
They kill a billion people
a year.
That seems high.
Dad, come on.
It's snow day.
Can't we at least go outside
and build one tiny
awesome snow fortress?
Absolutely not!
You shovel that walkway
before it turns into ice.
And no forts... I mean it!
Naturally, we did the opposite
'cause forts are awesome!
Good job, dude.
I can't feel my fingers,
but this definitely
was two hours well spent.
Do you think maybe we should
shovel the walkway a little
so Dad doesn't
totally freak?
Yeah, we should...
After a quick expansion.
Quick's good.
Whatcha thinking?
I'm picturing
a master bedroom
with an attached bath,
butler's quarters, a dojo,
one of those maze gardens,
all of the rooms from Clue,
an indoor
basketball court.
A basketball court
inside a snow fort?
That's just the first floor.
The second level's
where the party's at.
Hot tub, sauna,
fire pit.
You don't think that'll create
an awful lot of heat?
Yeah... once the word
gets out.
MURRAY: Son of a bitch.
A fort?
I told you dumbasses
to shovel the walk!
Crap! It's Dad.
He's coming for us.
We're so dead!
You get your asses
out of there
before that thing collapses
and traps you in an icy tomb.
Stay strong.
We're untouchable in here.
"Untouchable?"
I'll show you untouchable!
He's shimmying!
Oh, no! He's entering
the snow fort!
I never thought
this would happen!
MURRAY: Ah! I'm stuck!
I can't move my arms!
My arms are stuck!
How are your arms stuck?
It's snow. It's soft.
I'm wedged in!
My circulation's failing me!
I can feel it!
I'm gonna die in here!
(BOTH LAUGH)
He thinks he's dying.
Stop laughing!
Stop laughing at me right now!
Why are we hiding
from this man?
Look at him.
These are my last breaths!
I can see my last breaths!
He's so scared and vulnerable,
and it's hilarious.
This is how
it's gonna end for me...
In an icy igloo
with you two morons.
He's freaking out.
Shut up and help me!
You got it, pal.
(GRUNTING)
You're not trying
to help me.
You're just playing
with my face
to mess with me.
Dude, you push
like this.
Stop!
(BLEEP)
ADULT ADAM: As we continued
to mess with my dad,
my mom was
cleaning Erica's room.
Okay, she was ransacking it
like an FBI agent.
It was a desperate attempt
to uncover the person
Erica chose as her hero.
And then she found it...
Hidden in plain view
behind the circuit board
of a Lite-Brite,
the piece of paper that would
change my mom's life forever.
Dad, I stumbled upon
something incredible
hidden in Erica's room,
and I need to tell someone,
but I can't because
she'll never forgive me.
Okay, you twisted my arm,
so here it is.
I'm Erica's hero.
Me, baby, me!
Well, I'm glad
this worked out for you.
You know
what this means, right?
I have succeeded
as a mother.
Now, I know there were times
when I quietly wondered
if I had failed as a mother,
but now I know the truth.
Success!
Did it ever occur to you
that Erica hid that essay
so you wouldn't overreact
like you are right now?
Did it occur to you
that none of this matters
because I'm her hero?
Bevy, you snooped.
You broke her trust.
If I were you, I wouldn't
speak a word of this.
Obviously.
Erica will never,
ever know.
ADULT ADAM:
And she wouldn't...
for 10 minutes.
¶ Suddenly, I'm up on top
of the world
What the...
"A Daughter and Her Hero"?
¶ It should've been
somebody else
Oh, damn it. You know?
Know what? That I'm your
greatest American hero?
No, that's not true.
(LIP SYNCS)
¶ Believe it or not
I'm walking on air
¶ I never thought
I could feel so free
For the record,
it is none of your business
who my hero is.
¶ Who could it be?
¶ Believe it or not
it's just me ¶
(MUSIC STOPS)
I take it back, okay?
I take back
every single word I wrote.
You think you can just
take it back
like a bathing suit
you've worn three times
with the tags tucked in?
(LAUGHS)
No way. I'm your hero.
No!
Our history together
will show I think
you're the absolute worst.
But now I'll forever know
how you really feel about me,
which is,
"Everything my mother does
comes from her heart."
Stop using my words
against me.
You are not my hero.
I read a document
that says otherwise.
God, you ruin everything!
And yet I'm your
"beacon on the hill."
I resent you so much
right now.
But yet you love me
"more than anyone."
This is
"my worst nightmare."
And it's my dream.
(CHUCKLES)
Like the song says,
I'm walking on air.
And I'm walking out.
ADULT ADAM:
As Erica's secret was out,
Barry and I were
launching a secret plan
that would change everything.
Young Adam, we have been
given a gift.
We have seen with
our very eyes
the underbelly of our enemy.
Dad?
Yes!
The one who oppresses us
by ruling over the popcorn,
temperature,
and remote control.
He always makes me watch
Hee Haw!
Hee Haw, Barry!
We discovered something new
in that ice fort...
That Dad's vulnerable.
And when we mess with him,
it's super fun.
I agree.
It was joyous.
But we're back
in the house now.
It's over.
Or do we continue
the good times
and laughter forever?
You mean mess with Dad
outside the whimsical world
of the snow fort?
Of course! Now we know
he's all bark and no bite.
I bet he doesn't even think
we're morons.
But that's his hurtful
catchphrase.
From this moment on,
I say we do the things
that annoy him
and entertain us.
Like sitting in his chair
or leaving that last drop
in the orange juice container?
Damn right!
It's a snow-day revolution!
ADULT ADAM:
And our first battle was this.
You two are grounded!
No telephone! No Atari!
No robits!
Now get upstairs!
Want to go sledding?
Sure.
Sledding?
Didn't you hear
what I just said?
Oh, we heard it.
It's just... (CHUCKLES)
we're gonna pass
on the grounding.
(BOTH LAUGH)
What the hell
just happened?
ADULT ADAM: What happened
was a revolution.
ADULT ADAM: My brother and I
were in full rebellion mode,
and we were ready
to take it up a notch.
Bevy! Where's my tin
of holiday popcorn?
Looking for something? Mmm!
Flavored corn deliciousness.
What have you done?
Looks like you're not
the only one
who can enjoy four types
of gourmet popcorn
whenever he wants.
You better not have touched
white cheddar.
Oh, I touched
the white cheddar but good.
That quadrant
was for dads only!
Seriously,
what's wrong with you?
Yo, Ad-rock!
ADULT ADAM: And then we went
where no Goldberg
had gone before.
You chilly? I sure am.
Might as well just crank up
this bad boy.
Hey, you know no one touches
that thermostat.
It stays locked in
at a comfortable 63 degrees,
no higher!
87... Temperature
of the rich.
Eighty-seven degrees?
What do you think
this is, the sun?
We reign over
the thermostat now.
Okay, you saw me
at a low point,
and now you're giving me
a taste of my own medicine.
(MUFFLED) So good.
Sweet and savory.
Damn it, stop eating
all the caramel!
No can do.
You see, until now,
your main weapon
was dad rage,
but that all changed
when your middle-aged body
corked up
our snow tunnel.
Nothing has changed,
nothing.
(CHUCKLING)
Oh, it has.
We went into that snow fort
as scared boys,
but we emerged
as fearless men
who now find
your anger silly.
Fine. You don't want to
respect me? I'm out.
I retire from being involved
in your lives in any way.
Trust me,
there will be a time
when you come to me
in desperate need
of your dad,
and I won't help you.
ADULT ADAM: Our snow-day
rebellion had worked.
The balance of power
had shifted in our house,
and we were kings!
Dear God.
You were right.
We can mess with dad
out of the snow fort, too.
I feel so alive and sweaty
from the heat!
This must be what the other
Adam Goldberg in school
feels like all the time.
He's a loose cannon and
lives on his own terms!
Dude! Now we can finally
live our snow day
the way the gods
of winter intended it!
Car toboggan.
It combines the fun
of water-skiing
with the treacherous
danger of luge.
I like what I'm hearing.
Sit down and hold on
'cause I'm gonna drive fast
and take chances.
(ENGINE STARTS)
Snow day!
Life without a dad rules!
ADULT ADAM: As we set out on
our fatherless snow day,
my sister was doing
everything she could
to avoid our mom.
Mom isn't down here,
is she?
I haven't felt
her looming presence
in over an hour,
so you're safe.
Thank God.
That woman finding out
that she's my hero
is the worst thing
that's ever happened to me.
Speaking of heroes,
have I told you about
all my rich life adventures?
Yes. Many times.
I bet you didn't know
that after the army,
I joined the USO
and entertained the troops
with a death-defying
circus act.
I need help, Pops,
not your old-man yarns.
They're not yarns.
I trained a lion.
His name was Stan.
There you are, boopie.
I need your
fashion expertise.
Which iron-on should I put
on my purple jumpsuit,
me as the wind
beneath your wings
or we're two peas in a pod?
Hmm. I pick none.
Well, you go to pick one
so we can wear them
on our ski trip this weekend.
Let's be clear,
I am going skiing
with Lainey
and also 10 boys
who I know a little bit.
And your hero.
I'm sure you want me
to tag along.
In what world
does that make sense?
If Barry went on
a ski trip,
he'd want to bring
his hero, Chuck Norris,
and Adam would
definitely want to ski
with Crispin Glover.
So it makes perfect sense
that you would want
to bring your hero, me.
Okay, weird Crispin Glover
doesn't ski,
and Chuck Norris likes
a desert climate,
so you're not going.
I get it.
It's embarrassing
having your mom
as your hero.
But don't worry,
I can be cool.
Hang with the hunkos
in the bubbly tub
with my ski gogs on.
(CLICKS TONGUE)
Oh, my God.
I don't (GAGS)
even know how
to respond to that.
I know!
It's gonna be great!
Just like when we carpool
to school together
so we can have
a little gossip time.
(GAGS) I just can't...
And I'm gonna take you
to my Friday-night
scrapbooking club
so you can see how
your real hero cuts loose.
(GAGS)
Decoupage.
So, let me get this straight.
You being my hero
basically undoes
everything good
in my life?
Yay! We're gonna be
slope sisters.
I got to go bedazzle
my ski boots.
Ugh!
Thinking you should have
picked a different hero,
one who's literally
put his head
in a lion's mouth?
Wait a minute.
You're right.
I chose
to write about Mom,
so I can just
write about someone else.
Now we're talking.
I'll write about myself,
how I survived
my crazy "smother"
and became my own hero.
At this point,
very little surprises me.
Thank you, Pops!
You are my hero!
I mean,
for giving me the idea
to write about myself.
You bet.
(CHUCKLING) Oh, man!
That was awesome!
I know you don't
have your license,
but it's your turn
to drive.
Adam?
Huh.
ADULT ADAM:
Turns out we would
need our dad
just way sooner
than expected.
Fancy meeting you here.
Good to see
you're keeping warm
on this wintry day, Father.
Bup-bup.
Not the dad.
(LAUGHS)
Hilarious as always.
Speaking of funny stuff,
do you recall when you told me
there would be a time
I'd come to you
in desperate need?
Well, that moment
is now upon us.
Are you kidding?
It's been, what, 20 minutes?
Time sure does fly,
doesn't it?
Well, whatever you did,
it's on you.
Yeah, you're teaching me
a lesson about respect.
Noble goal.
In return,
I'd like to teach you
the highs and lows
of car tobogganing,
the recreational pastime
that's sweeping the nation.
What did you do?
I lost Adam.
Get my pants.
There's my little
typer monkey.
What you
click-clacking about?
Got more to write
about your hero mama?
Oh, just making a few tiny
tweaks to my college essay.
Tweaks?
Can't believe it gets
much better than that.
Oh, it's better.
My first tweak
was when I, like,
threw the whole thing out
and started over.
What's that, now?
Yeah, my new essay
is about my inner hero
and how I overcame
the greatest obstacle
of all.
Me?
It says I'm the obstacle?
Yep.
(GASPS) And ruiner of dreams?
For sure.
Strangler of hope?
Yep.
A vampire draining
your human sprite?
Oopsie, that is supposed
to say "spirit."
Good eye.
Oh. This is about me
going on the ski trip.
Okay, how's about
I just sit it out?
Just please don't
send this in.
And print.
(PRINTER CLICKING)
Please stop that horrible
printing sound.
I wish I could,
but I pressed the button,
and it can't be stopped.
It can
if I drown it out.
(BLENDER WHIRRING)
The blending stops
when the printing stops.
You can blend
all you want, lady,
but I'ma print
all day long.
Beverly, Adam is lost
in the snow!
It's an emergency!
I can't hear you.
I'm proving a point.
ADULT ADAM:
My sister had finally finished
her new college essay
about heroically triumphing
over her "smother,"
but my mom had one last trick
up her snowsuit.
Where are you going?
Out.
Where?
All of Philly's shut down.
I'm gonna snowshoe over
to the Dress Barn
and see about their
annual blizzard sale.
Blizzard sale?
That's not a thing.
Eat my dust, sucka.
Penn State's gonna know
I'm your hero.
Wait! Get back here!
ADULT ADAM:
But their race to the mailbox
didn't go as planned
because we forgot
to shovel the driveway.
No! Do not take that
to the mailbox.
Don't you dare.
It's too late.
You'll never catch me.
Get back here!
ADULT ADAM:
And so began the slowest
high-speed chase
in Goldberg history.
I wrote a better,
more hurtful one.
Those stupid sons of
bitches at Penn State
will never read it.
Not if I beat you
to the mailbox, old lady.
Ha! I'm pulling ahead!
No, never!
Oh! Oh!
Aah!
(BOTH GRUNTING)
You are not my hero!
No! Erica,
that's all I had left,
and you ruined it.
Mom, it's just
a stupid college essay.
Why make this
the biggest deal
in the world?
That essay was
the only proof I had
that you still want me
as your mom.
Come on.
That's not true.
Every day,
you roll your eyes at me
and you tell me
I ruin your life.
And I know you're a teenager,
and that's how it goes,
but it hurts.
And then
I read this essay.
And it was just nice
to be reminded
that you still
think nice things
about me sometimes.
Look,
even though you have real
impulse-control problems,
and you threw me down
on a sheet of ice,
you shouldn't need
some essay to know
that you really are my
(QUIETLY) hero.
What was that?
You're my stupid hero,
okay?
¶ Look at what's
happened to me...
I know I don't say it,
but I would be lucky
to grow up
to be as strong and confident
and passionate as you are.
¶ Suddenly I'm up
on top of the world
Oh, sweetie.
You already are
all of those things.
¶ It should've been
somebody else
¶ Believe it or not,
I'm walking on air
I'm your hero.
¶ I never thought
I could feel so free...
Dad?
You okay?
You were right.
Snow is nature's weapon.
I kind of hurt my ankle.
Come on.
I'll get you home safe.
¶ Believe it or not,
it's just me
(EXHALES HEAVILY)
(SNIFFLES)
You're gonna yell at us
when we get home, aren't you?
Oh, yeah.
Good.
ADULT ADAM:
That's the thing
about your heroes.
Even when we say
we don't need them,
they'd still have our backs.
But every once in a while,
heroes need
a little love, too,
or at least a reminder of
why they were so important
in the first place.
I think this
belongs to you.
So does this.
I melted a Butterfinger
on some Jiffy Pop.
Consider it our apology,
you know,
'cause you're the dad
and we like it that way.
If you need us,
we'll be shoveling
the walkway
like we should have done
in the first place.
ADULT ADAM: And with that,
our dad was back
to being our dad again.
But that snow day,
he realized there's much more
to being a father
than enforcing the rules.
Hey!
You snow babies
gonna fight back?
¶ Believe it or not
ADULT ADAM:
So, yeah, our snow day
didn't go as planned,
but turns out,
it really was the day
we'd always hoped for.
Take that, old man!
¶ Believe it or not,
I'm walking on air ¶
Oh, good.
The walkway's shoveled.
Ooh!
Oh!
Oh! You're gonna be
one sorry Schmoo!
ADULT ADAM:
And that night, even though
it was freezing outside
and we were lobbing balls
of ice at each other,
we played in the snow
as a family for hours.
¶ Believe it or not,
it's just me ¶
Because in the end,
nothing keeps you warm
like being around the people
you love most.
(INDISTINCT SHOUTING)
ADAM: I have off school today,
for it had snowed.
The tree's have frozen over,
and there's icicles
everywhere.
Yeah, we're live here.
(BOTH SCREAMING)
Ugh! I am so glad
I'm finally done with
that college essay.
You know, sweetheart,
it's not too late
to write about a real hero.
Ship's kind of sailed
at this point.
That ship might circle
back to port
when you take a gander
at some circus adventures
after the war.
Oh, Pops, you don't have
to make stuff up.
You'll always be
a hero to me.
But I spent four hours
digging this up...
Ah, damn it. She's gone.
(PROJECTOR WHIRRING)
And there they are, folks,
stretching it.
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
You handsome devil.
All right!
Come on down and see it.